[SPARK-35208][SQL][DOCS] Add docs for LATERAL subqueries (#37080)
apache/spark: docs/sql-ref-syntax-qry-select-lateral-subquery.md

---
layout: global
title: LATERAL SUBQUERY
displayTitle: LATERAL SUBQUERY
license: |
  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
  contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
  this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
  The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
  (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
  the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License.
---

### Description

> `LATERAL SUBQUERY` is a subquety that is preceded by the keyword `LATERAL`. It provides a way to cross-reference items in the preceding FROM clause.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`LATERAL SUBQUERY` is a subquery that is preceded by the keyword `LATERAL`. It provides a way to cross-reference items in the preceding FROM clause.
```

> `LATERAL SUBQUERY` is a subquery that is preceded by the keyword `LATERAL`. It provides a way to cross-reference items in the preceding FROM clause.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`LATERAL SUBQUERY` is a subquery that is preceded by the keyword `LATERAL`. It provides a way to cross-reference columns in the preceding FROM clause.
```

> Without the LATERAL keyword, each subquery is evaluated independently and cannot refer to items in the `FROM` clause. `LATERAL SUBQUERY` makes the complicated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Without the `LATERAL` keyword, each subquery is evaluated independently and cannot refer to items in the `FROM` clause. `LATERAL SUBQUERY` makes the complicated
```

> Without the `LATERAL` keyword, each subquery is evaluated independently and cannot refer to items in the `FROM` clause. `LATERAL SUBQUERY` makes the complicated

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Without the `LATERAL` keyword, subqueroes can only refer to columns in the outer query, but not in the `FROM` clause. `LATERAL SUBQUERY` makes the complicated
```

Author: Fixed. Thanks

queries simpler and more efficient.

### Syntax

```sql
[ LATERAL ] primary_relation [ join_relation ]
```

### Parameters

* **primary_relation**

  Specifies the primary relation. It can be one of the following:
  * Table relation
  * aliased query

    Syntax: `( query ) [ [ AS ] alias ]`

>   * aliased relation

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  * Aliased relation
```
